When creating an alert notification to send, it is important to use the proper alert notification severity. As a general rule-of-thumb, whenever you log you may also want to consider sending an alert notification of the appropriate severity as you see fit. Fatal, Critical, and Major Alert Notification Severities map well to a SEVERE logging category. The Minor and Warning Alert Notification Severities map well to a WARNING logging category. The Info Alert Notification Severity maps well to an INFO logging category. The following details some scenarios:

|| *Severity* || *Frequency* || *Rule-Of-Thumb* || *Example* ||
|| Fatal || Rarely || The system is in critical need of attention. To resolve this error, the administrator MUST undertake action. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a SEVERE level. || Component could not start because of a missing configuration file ||
|| Critical || Rarely || The system is in critical need of attention. To resolve this error, the administrator MUST undertake action. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a SEVERE level. || Application could not be deployed because an object is not bound to JNDI||
|| Major || Rarely || The system is in critical need of attention. To resolve this error, the administrator could take corrective action. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a SEVERE level. || A message could not be sent because of a missing certificate.||
|| Minor || Ideally once every few seconds || An error occurred; the error may recover itself. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a WARNING level. || Failed to connect to an external system, retry attempts will be made.||
|| Warning || Ideally once every few seconds || An error occurred; the error may recover itself. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a WARNING level. || Message could not be sent because it contained invalid data.||
|| Info || At most a few times in the application's or container's lifetime || The system as a whole has changed state. Consider sending an Alert with this severity when you are also going to log at a INFO level. || The binding component will now receive messages from an external system||

In addition to component generated alert notifications, customers can choose to build Alert Notifications to be generated from their deployed applications. These are user created alert notifications. The application can send these alert notifications any time the user sees fit to do so from his application. The user can build his application to send these alert notifications by using the features available in the design time and sent any one of the above mentioned alert notifications with the appropriate severity (Fatal, Critical, Major, Minor, Warning, or Info alert notification severities) anywhere he sees fit from his application.